[Music]
hey if you're reading this
i want you to know why i did it it all
started with getting rid of air travel
then they ripped up the railroads
finally they got rid of inner city roads
towns were isolating themselves from
each other for safety they said
and to make it official they built the
domes
day one 6 48 am it's a monumental
occasion and you don't want to miss it
after five years of construction your
town's dome was finally
completed last night it cost over 150
billion dollars
but it was a smart investment in the
self-sustaining future
inspired by the dreams of yesteryear
there were ancient buildings with
massive domes that stood for millennia
then sports stadiums adopted this
strongest of architectural shapes
superdomes they called them indoor
sports resorts under the protection of a
dome
like tropical islands in germany giant
biodomes and greenhouses
such as the eden project in the uk the
next step was only natural
cover it all the whole town 7am on the
dock
your second alarm snaps you out of your
thoughts sitting there in bed
waiting for the big moment it's time for
the first sunrise
it looks so real that you initially
think something's wrong
that the dome is gone but if you could
see it up close from your downtown
apartment
you'd notice the hexagonal plates you
can of course
this thing is as tall as everest it
takes 10 minutes for the sun to fully
rise
and then the room is as light as if it
were midday
you finish your coffee and toast and
walk outside
you and everyone else in this town of
one hundred thousand
no more mega cities like new york and
london they were broken up and put under
domes of no more than half a million
residents
can't have too many people breathing all
the oxygen right
some people are out jogging others are
reading books on park benches
the weather's perfect of course it's a
steady 71 degrees
what scientists found to be the most
comfortable temperature for people
no more surprises from mother nature she
can be gorgeous but
also cruel and destructive no now
humanity controls the weather
you spend the whole day walking around
town but the streets start to clear up
after lunchtime
a half hour rain shower is scheduled
every day at 2 30 pm
to water the crop fields day 2
sunrise 7 a.m temperature 71 degrees
you always know what to wear there are
no more meteorologists
no more weather forecasts no more
getting caught in unexpected rain
without an umbrella
there's only stability safety uniformity
you've decided to spend your sunday with
friends you talk
laugh and just enjoy each other's
company nobody's distracted by a phone
screen or social media notifications
popping up every two seconds towns have
been disconnected and closed up
there is no more internet day three
monday back to class you get on your
bike and make the short ride to campus
the roads are full of other commuters
other cyclists
kick scooters skateboarders walkers no
drivers
cars emit exhaust fumes and dome life
can't afford that
you're majoring in civil engineering
most universities have switched almost
entirely to
agricultural studies farmers botanists
soil scientists and the like
that's where all the jobs are in this
little self-sustaining ecosystem
but you're interested in a particular
internship the best student in your
faculty will be invited to work in the
dome department
you're sitting there taking notes when
all of a sudden
the lights go out the classroom no the
entire town is in complete darkness
your professor tries to keep everyone
calm but all you can think is
what if the light never comes back it's
the first time you've thought about it
you're under the dome utterly dependent
on it running smoothly
you feel so vulnerable a couple of
minutes in the darkness
feel like centuries but then the sky
starts to blink
and the light comes back all the
students let out a sigh of relief
seems you weren't the only one having
those thoughts
that's when a message appears on the
dome above and you hear a voice read it
dear citizens it seems the dome needs
more energy than we expected
please have patience as we try to figure
out this issue
for the time being we'll be restricting
private use of electricity
thank you for understanding day six
life under the dome went from stable
predictable perfection
to major inconvenience the electricity
ration went from 60 percent to 30
down to 15 and finally none you've been
thrown back into the dark ages
no more refrigerators tvs and vacuum
cleaners
the townspeople are patient but that
patience is
running out fast day eight
they're now limiting daylight hours and
the daily rains aren't coming
something terrible is going on with the
dome a lot of businesses have closed
classes are canceled and tension is
building up among the people as
food runs slim day 10
your cupboards are empty time to head to
the grocery store
when you get there the shock freezes you
where you stand
the store is almost completely empty no
food no soap
no nothing you managed to find some
canned goods that had rolled under a
shelf
there's also one remaining bag of
potatoes with gnats flying around it
maybe there's some produce in another
store you walk to the one on the next
street
nothing a third empty you go to every
store in the area
only to be met with the same result the
city is out of food
that evening you get another
announcement from the dome department
they finally come up with a solution
they're going to start renovating the
town to make space for more fields
they'll get rid of unnecessary
facilities and some people will need to
move in with friends
it's not ideal but it's better than
being hungry
day 23 the streets are mostly empty now
the few faces you see are usually quiet
and gloomy
must be the limited light at least
there's still air and water
but how long before those run out
eeriness
fills the town month two
there's no money no more stores no
buying
the community has switched to a barter
system need a haircut
pay someone with a head of lettuce a few
potatoes will buy you a newly sewn
shirt if you can find some fabric
month three good news they've made
substantial progress on the town
renovations
there are a little more crops more food
and people are pretty well fed
classes and businesses are opening back
up it seems
the city might just survive this thing
but the residents minds have already
been shaken
at least your mind has this isn't how
the world should be
cities need each other they exchange
services and goods
that's how you get development and
progress humanity
used to go to space and now we can't
even go to a neighboring town
you have to change something month six
you're hitting the books harder than
ever the renovations are done
and your town looks like a whole
different place it's all covered in
fields with
corn grain and potatoes seventy percent
of the space in the dome
is dedicated to crops it feels like
you're living in a greenhouse
you have mashed potatoes for breakfast
baked potatoes for lunch
and fried potatoes for dinner you're
sick of potatoes already
but at least hunger isn't a threat
anymore nobody remembers what chocolate
tastes like
your graduation day is in a month and it
looks like you've got that internship in
the bag
you wanted to work in the dome from the
very beginning but you want it even more
now
because you have to stop this one year
under the dome
you've been working in the domes
engineering department for a little over
five months
you're a third shifter overnight staff
work in pairs
your partner fell asleep just before
sunrise and that's when you
finally get your chance you leave the
room and walk to the main service room
they wanted to protect you but there's
nothing worse than isolation
you have to end this the button is right
in front of you
your heart is beating out of your chest
you take a deep breath
close your eyes and hit it a second
later
you hear a scraping sound and you can
see the dome going down
the sky behind the descending walls is
endless shades of orange pink and purple
sunrise not the digital one and very
soon
the whole town will wake up to the real
sky and light summer breeze
you're back and then you see the
security guards approaching
have to wrap this up now gotta go